docs/Policies/conferences_workshops.md, before:

# Conferences

You are encouraged to submit your work to conferences. 

If you are presenting your work, the lab will fund your registration and travel and any other conference-related expenses. [Meals can be reimbursed](https://your.yale.edu/policies-procedures/3301-travel-university-business#3301.5) via saving all your receipts, or through a per diem (I’d recommend the per diem). Please try to keep these costs down (e.g. with flight and hotel selection, and booking early). Please also keep your eyes out and apply for any travel awards. Your CV and the lab’s wallet will thank you. Like with other fellowship opportunities, I'll also forward travel award opportunities to the lab when I see them.

Please plan to **send me a draft of your abstract one week before deadline**. This gives us enough time for a few rounds of edits and discussion, and to develop the story together. Your work, and your abstract acceptance rate, will thank you. I’ll note that you often feel like your project is not-quite-ready when you start writing your abstract, and that the abstract writing process is often when the project gets developed to the point where it’s ready to submit… long story short, don’t be afraid to write an abstract even if you feel you’re not ready :) 

As with a paper submission, nothing goes out without all co-authors seeing and approving the final version.

The exact number of conferences you should expect to present at per year will depend on your career stage, and status of your project. IMO the best times to present are when you're halfway through a project, and trying to figure out what the story is, and just after you've posted a preprint.

To book travel and accommodation for conferences, use World Travel/Concur, Yale's platform for business travel. See [here](https://your.yale.edu/work-yale/campus-services/yale-travel-management) for more information. You can log into the Concur website [here](https://concur.yale.edu/).

There is a training in Workday called ["Booking Federally Sponsored Travel with World Travel"](https://www.myworkday.com/yale/learning/course/1e7e093ab7a21001abc67bad56c90001?type=9882927d138b100019b928e75843018d&record=00f9b09f318e102c62781e428a3d0001) that you should complete in order to understand the restrictions on booking travel when using federal funds.

You have a few options when it comes to airports:
- Bradley International Airport (BDL) in Hartford, CT
- Newark International Airport (EWR) in Newark, NJ
- John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK) in Queens, NYC
- LaGuardia Airport (LGA) in Queens, NYC

Commit message:

added info on travel to airport

docs/Policies/conferences_workshops.md, after:

# Conferences

You are encouraged to submit your work to conferences. 

If you are presenting your work, the lab will fund your registration and travel and any other conference-related expenses. [Meals can be reimbursed](https://your.yale.edu/policies-procedures/3301-travel-university-business#3301.5) via saving all your receipts, or through a per diem (I’d recommend the per diem). Please try to keep these costs down (e.g. with flight and hotel selection, and booking early). Please also keep your eyes out and apply for any travel awards. Your CV and the lab’s wallet will thank you. Like with other fellowship opportunities, I'll also forward travel award opportunities to the lab when I see them.

Please plan to **send me a draft of your abstract one week before deadline**. This gives us enough time for a few rounds of edits and discussion, and to develop the story together. Your work, and your abstract acceptance rate, will thank you. I’ll note that you often feel like your project is not-quite-ready when you start writing your abstract, and that the abstract writing process is often when the project gets developed to the point where it’s ready to submit… long story short, don’t be afraid to write an abstract even if you feel you’re not ready :) 

As with a paper submission, nothing goes out without all co-authors seeing and approving the final version.

The exact number of conferences you should expect to present at per year will depend on your career stage, and status of your project. IMO the best times to present are when you're halfway through a project, and trying to figure out what the story is, and just after you've posted a preprint.

To book travel and accommodation for conferences, use World Travel/Concur, Yale's platform for business travel. See [here](https://your.yale.edu/work-yale/campus-services/yale-travel-management) for more information. You can log into the Concur website [here](https://concur.yale.edu/).

There is a training in Workday called ["Booking Federally Sponsored Travel with World Travel"](https://www.myworkday.com/yale/learning/course/1e7e093ab7a21001abc67bad56c90001?type=9882927d138b100019b928e75843018d&record=00f9b09f318e102c62781e428a3d0001) that you should complete in order to understand the restrictions on booking travel when using federal funds.

You have a few options when it comes to airports:
- Bradley International Airport (BDL) in Hartford, CT: drive/Uber
- Newark International Airport (EWR) in Newark, NJ: direct Amtrak train from New Haven
- John F. Kennedy Airport (JFK) in Queens, NYC: Amtrak to LIRR or E train to AirTrain
- LaGuardia Airport (LGA) in Queens, NYC: Metro-North to Harlem-125th Street, then Uber or M60+ bus

The three NYC airports are generally far cheaper and far better connected. The direct Amtrak train from New Haven to Newark/EWR makes that the most convenient option. You can book Amtrak tickets [here](www.amtrak.com) (you should buy them in advance) or use the [TrainTime App](https://www.mta.info/traintime) to buy Metro-North/LIRR tickets (less important to book in advance).

To navigate the MTA (NYC's subway and bus system) you can use Google Maps or something like CityMapper for real-time arrival info. The MTA has tap-to-pay terminals so you can tap your card or phone for the fare.
