Resources and How-Tos/adobe.md, before:

We typically use Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop to make figures, though some people prefer open-source freeware like Inkscape and GIMP.

To get an Adobe license, you will need to submit a request for Adobe Creative Cloud to IT; see [this FAQ section](https://yale.service-now.com/it?id=kb_article&sysparm_article=KB0027311#mcetoc_1j3r5inrc22m)\*.
- Licenses run within a fixed period, from August to August, regardless of when you register for one.
- Students at the Yale School of Medicine receive Adobe CC for free, and students from other departments should request it through their school directly.
- Other staff (like postdocs, postgrads, technicians, etc.) at YSM are entitled to a deep discount on the license at $15/year (see [email from FAQs](https://view.message.yale.edu/?qs=3fe5a5ad99b5850c6fe741d03ccf84c4edd5c6ec0c7c762a52a9f64ecf555b3ad319e2dd39ca68445f60105dfc001aec47efb6a66aab282bf8d3674ceff8c1fb17c8335e7db531c7dc3763046b6088fc)), and can request an upgrade using [this form](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=u76M3Tkh-E20EU4-h6vrXO9v2moL5KBGqNzstb4YeNZURTU0UkpNUDdWWFJTMEwyOUdJM1MzWTFTUi4u&route=shorturl).
- For non YSM-staff, Yale provides the license to staff at $41.24/year via [Software Library](https://yale.onthehub.com/WebStore/Welcome.aspx).
- IT will want you to provide justification for the upgrade; explaining that you need Illustrator/Photoshop to edit scientific figures for posters or publications should be sufficient.

\* *These links work as of October 2025, if any are broken or any information is outdated, please update them!*

Commit message:

noted that the 5 charge will be covered by the department, removed charge for non-YSM employees, since presumably that can also be covered by the department. also removed the line saying to fix broken links because the handbook already says to do that

Resources and How-Tos/adobe.md, after:

We typically use Adobe Illustrator and Photoshop to make scientific figures. To get an Adobe license, you will need to submit a request for Adobe Creative Cloud to IT; see [this FAQ section](https://yale.service-now.com/it?id=kb_article&sysparm_article=KB0027311#mcetoc_1j3r5inrc22m).
- Licenses run within a fixed period, from August to August, regardless of when you register for one.
- Students at the Yale School of Medicine receive Adobe CC for free, and students from other departments should request it through their school directly.
- Other staff (like postdocs, postgrads, technicians, etc.) at YSM can request an upgrade using [this form](https://forms.office.com/pages/responsepage.aspx?id=u76M3Tkh-E20EU4-h6vrXO9v2moL5KBGqNzstb4YeNZURTU0UkpNUDdWWFJTMEwyOUdJM1MzWTFTUi4u&route=shorturl). The $15/year charge listed will be covered by the department.
- For non YSM-staff, Yale provides the license to staff via [Software Library](https://yale.onthehub.com/WebStore/Welcome.aspx).
- IT will want you to provide justification for the upgrade; explaining that you need Illustrator/Photoshop to edit scientific figures for posters or publications should be sufficient.
