Resources and How-Tos/mailing_lists.md, before:

# Mailing lists/groups at Yale

Mailing lists/groups you may wish to sign up for/get added to, and how. Click the links to be redirected to submission forms. For most, you'll need to input your email, name, and the answer to a bot-prevention question. You may also choose an optional password to prevent anyone from messing with your subscription.

*=Strongly recommended  

### Mailing Lists
1. [Neuroscience mailing list](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/neuroscience)
2. [Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program (INP) mailing list](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/inp_general)
3. *[Wu Tsai Institute (WTI) mailing list](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/wti-members)
4. Research in Progress (RIP) mailing list - link unknown @Dan
5. *[WTI NeuroAI Journal Club mailing list](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/wti-neuro-ai-jc)
6. Neuro and Philosophy - link unknown @Dan
7. QBio talks - link unknown @Dan
8. Foundations of Data Science - link unknown @Dan


9. [All mailman.yale.edu mailing lists](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/)


### Slack Workspaces
1. WTI Slack - Ask Dan to add you
2. Levenstein Lab Slack - Ask Dan to add you

Commit message:

adding updated mailing list links

Resources and How-Tos/mailing_lists.md, after:

# Mailing lists/groups at Yale

Mailing lists/groups you may wish to sign up for/get added to, and how. Click the links to be redirected to submission forms. For most, you'll need to input your email, name, and the answer to a bot-prevention question. You may also choose an optional password to prevent anyone from messing with your subscription.

*=Strongly recommended  

### Mailing Lists
1. [Neuroscience mailing list](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/neuroscience)
2. [Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program (INP) mailing list](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/inp_general)
3. *[Wu Tsai Institute (WTI) mailing list](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/wti-members)
4. Research in Progress (RIP) mailing list - link unknown @Dan
5. *[WTI NeuroAI Journal Club mailing list](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/wti-neuro-ai-jc)
6. [APplied PHilosophy In NEuroscience (APHINE)](https://yaleconnect.yale.edu/aphine/home/)
7. Quantitative Biology (QBio) talks - email `qbio@yale.edu` to be added to the listserv
8. Foundations of Data Science Institute talks - email `fds@yale.edu` to be added to the list serve


9. [All mailman.yale.edu mailing lists](https://mailman.yale.edu/mailman/listinfo/)


### Slack Workspaces
1. WTI Slack - Ask Dan to add you
2. Levenstein Lab Slack - Ask Dan to add you
