docs/Resources/recommended_reading.md, before:

# Recommended Reading

*Some recommended foundational papers and reviews to get acquainted with selected topics of interest to the lab*

**Sleep**

- [Sleep-dependent memory consolidation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627304005409), Stickgold R, 2005, Nature
- [The memory function of sleep](https://www.nature.com/articles/nrn2762), Diekelmann S & Born J, 2010, Nat Rev Neurosci
- [Overlapping memory replay during sleep builds cognitive schemata](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364661311001094), Lewis PA & Durrant SJ, 2011, Trends Cogn Sci
- [About sleep’s role in memory](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23589831/), Rasch B & Born J, 2013, Physiol Rev
- [Sleep and synaptic plasticity in the developing and adult brain](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/7854_2014_305), Frank MG, 2014, Curr Top Behav Neurosci
- [Mechanisms of systems memory consolidation during sleep](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-019-0467-3), Klinzing JG et al, 2019, Nat Neurosci
- [Experience and sleep-dependent synaptic plasticity: from structure to activity](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/rstb/article/375/1799/20190234/23743/Experience-and-sleep-dependent-synaptic-plasticity), Sun L et al, 2020, Philos Trans R Soc B
- [Sleep — a brain state serving systems memory consolidation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627323002015), Brodt S et al, 2023, Neuron
- [Sleep’s contribution to memory formation](https://journals.physiology.org/doi/abs/10.1152/physrev.00054.2024), Lutz ND et al, 2026, Physiol Rev

**Memory consolidation**

- [Why there are complementary learning systems in the hippocampus and neocortex: insights from the successes and failures of connectionist models of learning and memory](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/7624455/), McClelland JL et al, 1995, Psychol Rev


**Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs)**

- https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627320307054

**neuroAI**

- https://www.nature.com/articles/s41583-023-00705-w
- https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-019-0520-2

**Replay in brains and ANNs**

- https://www.cell.com/trends/neurosciences/abstract/S0166-2236(21)00144-2
- https://direct.mit.edu/neco/article-abstract/33/11/2908/107071/Replay-in-Deep-Learning-Current-Approaches-and
- https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/095400996116910
- https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-17866-2

**hippocampus**

- https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4648295/

**Hippocampus/MEC - recent models**

- [The hippocampus as a predictive map](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28967910/), Stachenfeld KL et al, 2017, Nat Neurosci
- [Vector-based navigation using grid-like representations in artificial agents](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29743670/), Banino A et al, 2018, Nature
- [The Tolman-Eichenbaum Machine: Unifying Space and Relational Memory through Generalization in the Hippocampal Formation](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33181068/), Whittington JCR et al, 2020, Cell
- [A model of egocentric to allocentric understanding in mammalian brains](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.11.11.378141v2), Uria B et al, 2020, bioRxiv
- [Place cells may simply be memory cells: Memory compression leads to spatial tuning and history dependence](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34916282/), Benna MK et al, 2021, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
- [Predictive learning as a network mechanism for extracting low-dimensional latent space representations](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33658520/), Recanatesi S et al, 2021, Nat Commun
- [Clone-structured graph representations enable flexible learning and vicarious evaluation of cognitive maps](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33888694/), George D et al, 2021, Nat Commun
- [A unified theory for the computational and mechanistic origins of grid cells](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36306779/), Sorscher B et al, 2023, Neuron
- [Self-Supervised Learning of Representations for Space Generates Multi-Modular Grid Cells](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/hash/4846257e355f6923fc2a1fbe35099e91-Abstract-Conference.html), Schaeffer R et al, 2023, NeurIPS
- [Episodic and associative memory from spatial scaffolds in the hippocampus](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39814883/), Chandra S et al, 2025, Nature

**Neural population dynamics, manifolds, et al**

- Mante et al., 2013, Nature. [Context-dependent computation by recurrent dynamics in prefrontal cortex](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24201281/)
- Sussillo et al, 2013, Neural Computation. [Opening the Black Box: Low-Dimensional Dynamics in High-Dimensional Recurrent Neural Networks](https://direct.mit.edu/neco/article/25/3/626/7854/Opening-the-Black-Box-Low-Dimensional-Dynamics-in)
- Sadtler et al, 2014, Nature. [Neural constraints on learning](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature13665)
- Sussillo et al, 2015, Nature Neuroscience. [A neural network that finds a naturalistic solution for the production of muscle activity](https://www.nature.com/articles/nn.4042)
- Gallego et al, 2017, *Neuron*. [Neural Manifolds for the Control of Movement](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627317304634)
- Mastrogiuseppe & Ostojic, 2018, *Neuron*. [Linking Connectivity, Dynamics, and Computations in Low-Rank Recurrent Neural Networks](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627318305439)
- Saxena & Cunningham, 2019, *Current Opinion in Neurobiology*. [Towards the neural population doctrine](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959438818300990)
- Inagaki et al, 2019, Nature. [Discrete attractor dynamics underlies persistent activity in the frontal cortex](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30728503/)
- Chaudhuri et al, 2019, *Nature Neuroscience*. [The intrinsic attractor manifold and population dynamics of a canonical cognitive circuit across waking and sleep](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-019-0460-x)
- Yang et al, 2019, *Nature Neuroscience*. [Task representations in neural networks trained to perform many cognitive tasks](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30643294/)
- Vyas et al, 2020, *Annual Review of Neuroscience*. [Computation Through Neural Population Dynamics](https://www.annualreviews.org/content/journals/10.1146/annurev-neuro-092619-094115) 
- Barack et al, 2021, *Nat Rev Neurosci*. [Two views on the cognitive brain](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33859408/)
- Kriegeskorte et al, 2021, *Nature Reviews Neuroscience*. [Neural tuning and representational geometry](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41583-021-00502-3)
- DePasquale et al, 2023, *Neuron*. [The centrality of population-level factors to network computation is demonstrated by a versatile approach for training spiking networks](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627322010807)
- Driscoll et al, 2024, *Nature Neuroscience*. [Flexible multitask computation in recurrent networks utilizes shared dynamical motifs](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-024-01668-6)
- Genkin et al, 2025, Nature. [The dynamics and geometry of choice in the premotor cortex](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-025-09199-1)
- Langdon et al, 2025, *Nature Neuroscience*. [Latent circuit inference from heterogeneous neural responses during cognitive tasks](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-025-01869-7)

**General - scientific process**

- https://web.stanford.edu/~fukamit/schwartz-2008.pdf
- https://www.nature.com/articles/s41587-023-02074-2

**modeling and theory**

- https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39257366/
- https://www.jstor.org/stable/184253

Commit message:

Add new recommended reading entry for Langdon et al. 2023

docs/Resources/recommended_reading.md, after:

# Recommended Reading

*Some recommended foundational papers and reviews to get acquainted with selected topics of interest to the lab*

**Sleep**

- [Sleep-dependent memory consolidation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627304005409), Stickgold R, 2005, Nature
- [The memory function of sleep](https://www.nature.com/articles/nrn2762), Diekelmann S & Born J, 2010, Nat Rev Neurosci
- [Overlapping memory replay during sleep builds cognitive schemata](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1364661311001094), Lewis PA & Durrant SJ, 2011, Trends Cogn Sci
- [About sleep’s role in memory](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/23589831/), Rasch B & Born J, 2013, Physiol Rev
- [Sleep and synaptic plasticity in the developing and adult brain](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/7854_2014_305), Frank MG, 2014, Curr Top Behav Neurosci
- [Mechanisms of systems memory consolidation during sleep](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-019-0467-3), Klinzing JG et al, 2019, Nat Neurosci
- [Experience and sleep-dependent synaptic plasticity: from structure to activity](https://royalsocietypublishing.org/rstb/article/375/1799/20190234/23743/Experience-and-sleep-dependent-synaptic-plasticity), Sun L et al, 2020, Philos Trans R Soc B
- [Sleep — a brain state serving systems memory consolidation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627323002015), Brodt S et al, 2023, Neuron
- [Sleep’s contribution to memory formation](https://journals.physiology.org/doi/abs/10.1152/physrev.00054.2024), Lutz ND et al, 2026, Physiol Rev

**Memory consolidation**

- [Why there are complementary learning systems in the hippocampus and neocortex: insights from the successes and failures of connectionist models of learning and memory](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/7624455/), McClelland JL et al, 1995, Psychol Rev


**Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs)**

- https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627320307054

**neuroAI**

- https://www.nature.com/articles/s41583-023-00705-w
- https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-019-0520-2

**Replay in brains and ANNs**

- https://www.cell.com/trends/neurosciences/abstract/S0166-2236(21)00144-2
- https://direct.mit.edu/neco/article-abstract/33/11/2908/107071/Replay-in-Deep-Learning-Current-Approaches-and
- https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/095400996116910
- https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-17866-2

**hippocampus**

- https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC4648295/

**Hippocampus/MEC - recent models**

- [The hippocampus as a predictive map](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28967910/), Stachenfeld KL et al, 2017, Nat Neurosci
- [Vector-based navigation using grid-like representations in artificial agents](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29743670/), Banino A et al, 2018, Nature
- [The Tolman-Eichenbaum Machine: Unifying Space and Relational Memory through Generalization in the Hippocampal Formation](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33181068/), Whittington JCR et al, 2020, Cell
- [A model of egocentric to allocentric understanding in mammalian brains](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.11.11.378141v2), Uria B et al, 2020, bioRxiv
- [Place cells may simply be memory cells: Memory compression leads to spatial tuning and history dependence](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34916282/), Benna MK et al, 2021, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A
- [Predictive learning as a network mechanism for extracting low-dimensional latent space representations](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33658520/), Recanatesi S et al, 2021, Nat Commun
- [Clone-structured graph representations enable flexible learning and vicarious evaluation of cognitive maps](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33888694/), George D et al, 2021, Nat Commun
- [A unified theory for the computational and mechanistic origins of grid cells](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36306779/), Sorscher B et al, 2023, Neuron
- [Self-Supervised Learning of Representations for Space Generates Multi-Modular Grid Cells](https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/hash/4846257e355f6923fc2a1fbe35099e91-Abstract-Conference.html), Schaeffer R et al, 2023, NeurIPS
- [Episodic and associative memory from spatial scaffolds in the hippocampus](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39814883/), Chandra S et al, 2025, Nature

**Neural population dynamics, manifolds, et al**

- Mante et al., 2013, Nature. [Context-dependent computation by recurrent dynamics in prefrontal cortex](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/24201281/)
- Sussillo et al, 2013, Neural Computation. [Opening the Black Box: Low-Dimensional Dynamics in High-Dimensional Recurrent Neural Networks](https://direct.mit.edu/neco/article/25/3/626/7854/Opening-the-Black-Box-Low-Dimensional-Dynamics-in)
- Sadtler et al, 2014, Nature. [Neural constraints on learning](https://www.nature.com/articles/nature13665)
- Sussillo et al, 2015, Nature Neuroscience. [A neural network that finds a naturalistic solution for the production of muscle activity](https://www.nature.com/articles/nn.4042)
- Gallego et al, 2017, *Neuron*. [Neural Manifolds for the Control of Movement](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627317304634)
- Mastrogiuseppe & Ostojic, 2018, *Neuron*. [Linking Connectivity, Dynamics, and Computations in Low-Rank Recurrent Neural Networks](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627318305439)
- Saxena & Cunningham, 2019, *Current Opinion in Neurobiology*. [Towards the neural population doctrine](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959438818300990)
- Inagaki et al, 2019, Nature. [Discrete attractor dynamics underlies persistent activity in the frontal cortex](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30728503/)
- Chaudhuri et al, 2019, *Nature Neuroscience*. [The intrinsic attractor manifold and population dynamics of a canonical cognitive circuit across waking and sleep](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-019-0460-x)
- Yang et al, 2019, *Nature Neuroscience*. [Task representations in neural networks trained to perform many cognitive tasks](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30643294/)
- Vyas et al, 2020, *Annual Review of Neuroscience*. [Computation Through Neural Population Dynamics](https://www.annualreviews.org/content/journals/10.1146/annurev-neuro-092619-094115) 
- Barack et al, 2021, *Nat Rev Neurosci*. [Two views on the cognitive brain](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/33859408/)
- Kriegeskorte et al, 2021, *Nature Reviews Neuroscience*. [Neural tuning and representational geometry](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41583-021-00502-3)
- DePasquale et al, 2023, *Neuron*. [The centrality of population-level factors to network computation is demonstrated by a versatile approach for training spiking networks](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0896627322010807)
- Langdon et al, 2023, Nature Reviews Neuroscience. [A unifying perspective on neural manifolds and circuits for cognition](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41583-023-00693-x)
- Driscoll et al, 2024, *Nature Neuroscience*. [Flexible multitask computation in recurrent networks utilizes shared dynamical motifs](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-024-01668-6)
- Genkin et al, 2025, Nature. [The dynamics and geometry of choice in the premotor cortex](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-025-09199-1)
- Langdon et al, 2025, *Nature Neuroscience*. [Latent circuit inference from heterogeneous neural responses during cognitive tasks](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41593-025-01869-7)

**General - scientific process**

- https://web.stanford.edu/~fukamit/schwartz-2008.pdf
- https://www.nature.com/articles/s41587-023-02074-2

**modeling and theory**

- https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39257366/
- https://www.jstor.org/stable/184253
